
[comment]: # (day_03-1.md)

# Advent of Code

## Day 3 - Spiral Memory
### Part 1 - 12/28/2017

---
You come across an experimental new kind of memory stored on an infinite two-dimensional grid.

Each square on the grid is allocated in a spiral pattern starting at a location marked 1 and then counting up while spiraling outward. For example, the first few squares are allocated like this:
```
17  16  15  14  13
18   5   4   3  12
19   6   1   2  11
20   7   8   9  10
21  22  23---> ...
```

While this is very space-efficient (no squares are skipped), requested data must be carried back to square 1 (the location of the only access port for this memory system) by programs that can only move up, down, left, or right. They always take the shortest path: the [Manhattan Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taxicab_geometry) between the location of the data and square 1.

For example:

Data from square `1` is carried `0` steps, since it's at the access port.
Data from square `12` is carried `3` steps, such as: down, left, left.
Data from square `23` is carried only `2` steps: up twice.
Data from square `1024` must be carried `31` steps.
How many steps are required to carry the data from the square identified in your puzzle input all the way to the access port?

Your puzzle input is `347991`.

---
### Solution

* Input: integer representing sequential square to be accessed in spiral memory


* Output: integer representing the shortest path (Manhattan Distance) from the input square to the origin (first/middle square of spiral memory)
  - Manhattan Distance: if treating spiral memory as a coordinate plane, this is the sum of the absolute values of `x` and `y` movements in the shortest path between two points


* Pseudocode:
  - represent spiral memory up to the requested square
    + data structure: hash
      * use sequence number as the key
      * use an array representing x and y coordinates as the value
    + initialize spiral memory with the first/origin square with coordinates [0, 0]
  - to obtain the spiral pattern, squares are allocated in increasingly growing lines following a specific, repeating directional pattern
    + the first line (excluding the origin square) is a single square in length
    + line size does not increase until two lines have been placed
    + the directional pattern is: right, up, left, down
      * line length increases by 1 on right and left directions
  - calculate the shortest path
    + shortest path is the sum of the absolute values of the requested square's x and y coordinates



* Solution: [day_03-1.rb](day_03-1.rb)
  - I ended up deviating significantly from my pseudocode. I did not flesh out my approach thoroughly at all, which my initial coding attempt revealed. I should have used that as an exploratory spike and revisited my pseudocode accordingly instead of just powering through code changes with less direction.
