
[comment]: # (day_04-1.md)

# Advent of Code

## Day 4 - High Entropy Passphrases
### Part 1 - 1/7/2018

---
A new system policy has been put in place that requires all accounts to use a passphrase instead of simply a password. A passphrase consists of a series of words (lowercase letters) separated by spaces.

To ensure security, a valid passphrase must contain no duplicate words.

For example:

* `aa bb cc dd ee` is valid.
* `aa bb cc dd aa` is not valid - the word aa appears more than once.
* `aa bb cc dd aaa` is valid - aa and aaa count as different words.


The system's full passphrase list is available as your puzzle input. How many passphrases are valid?

[Puzzle Input](day_04_input.txt)

---
### Solution

* Input: text representing full passphrase list
  - save text to file, use filename as input
  - passphrases are line-separated


* Output: integer representing how many of the passphrases in the given list are valid
  - valid passphrase: a series of words (lowercase letters) separated by spaces, with no duplicate words


* Pseudocode:
  - create a counter to track valid passphrases
  - read the given input file a line at a time (removing end of line newline character)
  - determine if the line (passphrase) is valid
    + create a hash to store words as keys and number of occurrences as values
    + split the phrase on whitespace to separate words
    + if a word is valid (only lowercase letters), add it to the word hash/increment its value
    + return false if a word is invalid
    + if any value is greater than 1, return false
    + otherwise return true
  - increment the valid phrase counter if the current phrase is valid
  - return the number of valid phrases



* Solution: [day_04-1.rb](day_04-1.rb)
